# Databases and Go

## Connecting to Postgres with `database/sql`

[This article](https://www.calhoun.io/connecting-to-a-postgresql-database-with-gos-database-sql-package/) shows you how to connect to PostgreSQL from go using `database/sql`

## GORM the golang ORM

The official documentation for GORM is [here](http://gorm.io/docs/).

If you feel the official docs are too advanced, feel free to use YouTube for material with a lower learning curve.

## Data Project, GORM version

*NOTE:* the database for this project should be PostgreSQL.

### Part 1. SQL scripts to create, drop database
Create "helper" SQL scripts that make it easy for a mentor to run your code.

1. **Script 1**, "create script" - should create a new database on which the GORM code will run.
2. **Script 2**, "delete script" - should drop the database of this project. It should also clean up any other resources like users, your "create script" creates.

### Part 2. GORM loader script
This script should load the **entire** CSV data from your previous data projects into the database.

#### TASKS
1. Design table schema, based on your CSV.
2. *Note* that you might have multiple tables. Either for multiple CSV or supporting data like country lists/state lists etc. You must design Primary Key - Foreign Key relations for those.
3. Write GORM code for ...
    * mapping declarations
    * creating schema
    * generating JSON files similar **JS data project** but this uses your database instead of CSV file.

### Part 3
Copy the HTML / js code from the previous project and test against the JSON generated in *Part 2*
